add blog for lambda releases (#2726)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2023/lambda-release.md

---
title: OpenTelemetry Updates our Lambda Support
linkTitle: OTel Lambda Updates
date: 2023-05-15
author: '[Carter Socha](https://github.com/cartersocha) (Lightstep)'
---

The Functions-as-a-Service (FAAS) SIG is incredibly excited to announce that the
OpenTelemetry (OTel) community is now releasing our own Lambda layers and has
[centralized documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/faas/) on how to
monitor Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambdas.

### A Slightly New World

If you've been monitoring Lambdas using OTel for a while now you may be slightly
confused by this announcement. You might say something like OTel has had a
[repo for Lambda layers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda)
and they've been available on AWS for years.

Which is totally correct. Thankfully, we're not remaking the wheel here.
However, there are a couple new updates.

> Previously the OTel Lambda layers were only released as part of the

Reviewer: I would split the things in this paragraph into a list to make it more clear what's changing and why

Author: Updated and lmk what you think.

> Previously the OTel Lambda layers were only released as part of the Amazon
> Distribution of OTel (ADOT) and the community had limited control over releases,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously the OTel Lambda layers were only released as part of the 
[Amazon Distribution of OTel (ADOT)](https://aws-otel.github.io/)
and the community had limited control over releases,
```

---

> title: OpenTelemetry Updates our Lambda Support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry Updates Lambda Support
```

linkTitle: OTel Lambda Updates

> date: 2023-05-15

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
date: 2023-05-25
```

author: '[Carter Socha](https://github.com/cartersocha) (Lightstep)'
---

> The Functions-as-a-Service (FAAS) SIG is incredibly excited to announce that the

Reviewer 3: Fix capitalization. Also, link to a FaaS resource? E.g.:

```suggestion
The [Functions-as-a-Service (FaaS) SIG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/187XYoQcXQ9JxS_5v2wvZ0NEysaJ02xoOYNXj08pT0zc) is incredibly excited to announce that the
```

OpenTelemetry (OTel) community is now releasing our own Lambda layers and has
[centralized documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/faas/) on how to
monitor Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambdas.

> ### A Slightly New World

Reviewer 3: The heading level should be at level 2.

```suggestion
## A Slightly New World
```

I'm not sure how much meaning that title text conveys. How about:

```suggestion
## OTel FaaS repackaged
```

If you've been monitoring Lambdas using OTel for a while now you may be slightly
confused by this announcement. You might say something like OTel has had a
[repo for Lambda layers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda)
and they've been available on AWS for years.

Which is totally correct. Thankfully, we're not remaking the wheel here.
However, there are some pre-existing problems that impact our users:

- The OTel Lambda layers were only released as part of the

>   [Amazon Distribution of OTel (ADOT)](https://aws-otel.github.io/) and the

Reviewer 4: It's AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT)

Author: updated - thanks

  community had limited control over releases which meant a delay getting new
  features and fixes delivered.
- The layers available on AWS combined the Collector and auto-instrumentation
  capabilities into 1 package which spilled over into performance degradations
  and limited user choice.
- There wasn't official OTel guidance on how to monitor Lambdas and no single
  source of truth for OTel users to reference.

The FAAS SIG has updated our assets to address these shortcomings:

- We have written new Github Actions to release the Lambda layers ourselves and
  empower the community to make our own release decisions.
- Separated the Collector and instrumentation layers to give customers options
  when instrumenting their Lambdas. The community now offers a standalone Lambda
  layer for the Collector alongside auto-instrumentation layers for JavaScript,
  Java, and Python.
- Added official community Lambda documentation to the OTel website under the
  new FAAS section.

### Get Involved

> We're not stopping at our current state. Going forward, the FAAS SIG is planning
> on adding similar documentation + (potentially) auto-instrumentation for other
> Cloud vendors like Azure and GCP, enhancing the existing Lambda assets, and
> improving OpenTelemetry performance for Function specific scenarios.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moving forward, the FaaS SIG plans to: enhance the documentation, add auto-instrumentation for other
Cloud vendors like Azure and GCP (tentative), enhancing the existing Lambda assets, and
improving OpenTelemetry performance for Function specific scenarios.
```
